Does 2 Thessalonians prove or disprove
the rapture of the church? A lot of
people look at it and for some reason,
which I I can't explain, they think it
somehow disproves a pre-tribulational
rapture. The exact opposite is true. In
chapter 2, we have this interesting
timeline here. When you read it, first
we have the apostasy that is mentioned.
Then we have something called the
restrainer that is removed. This is in
verse number seven where it says, "For
the mystery of iniquity doth already
work. Only he who now letteth will let
until he be taken out of the way. Or he
who restrains will restrain until he's
taken out of the way. And when the
restrainer is removed, then the man of
sin is revealed. And when the man of sin
is revealed, then we enter in to the day
of the Lord. Now, there's a lot of
debate over uh what the apostasy means.
Is it a physical departure? Is it a
spiritual departure? Actually, it
doesn't even matter because when you
look at the context, we know that both
are going to happen. We know that there
will be a spiritual departure for many
will depart from the faith. Paul said,
giving heed to seducing spirits and
doctrines of devils. And we know there's
a physical departure because this
restrainer is removed. This is what is
holding back the man of sin, the
antichrist, from being revealed. And
then, and only then, will the day of the
Lord begin the tribulation. Now,
restrainer or letteth. What exactly does
that mean? He who now letth will let
until he be taken out of the way. Well,
it means to hold back, to detain,
to retain from going away, to restrain,
to hinder the course or the progress of.
We already know that there are many
antichrists in the world. We're told
that in the epistles. We know that the
spirit of antichrist is already in the
world. What is holding back the man of
sin from being revealed? There is
something hindering the course or
progress of the antichrist agenda. That
which hinders leth or restrain the
antichrist from making his appearance to
hold fast to keep secure to keep firm
possession of to get possession of to
take or to possess. So this is what he
who now letth will let until he's taken
out of the way. So we have to ask
ourselves then. Is there a force in the
New Testament that is described as a
restrainer?
Well, there's a couple references to a
restrainer in the world. The Bible talks
about there will be a force that is
referenced as salt [music]
and a force that is referenced as light.
But what does salt do? [music] It holds
back. It letth it restrainth decay.
What does light do? [music] It holds
back and it restrains
darkness. And who is called the salt and
light in the earth? You're exactly
right. That is the church of Jesus
Christ. We are salt and light. Here's
what it says in Genesis chapter 19,
which I think is a fascinating rapture
passage. And this is from the amplified
version. It says, "Hurry," referring to
Lot. hurry and take refuge there. For
here's what God says. I cannot do
anything to punish Sodom until you
arrive there. For this reason, the town
was named Zor few or small. So, there
was a restraining force that was holding
back the wrath of God, that was holding
back the judgment of God. And what was
it? It was someone in righteous covenant
with God in the earth. In fact, when
Abraham is negotiating with God, he
says, "Will the God of all the earth,
the judge of all the earth do what's
[music] right?" And of course, the
inference Abraham is making is, "You
cannot pour out your wrath while
somebody who's in covenant with you,
even though they're not perfect. It's
there in that city. [music] You can't
pour out your wrath." And God said,
"You're exactly right. And I won't. So,
I'm going to send some angels and I'm
going to bring them out, snatch them out
of that city very quickly, and then I'll
pour my wrath out on the earth." which
helps us understand kind of the
confusion because a lot of people will
say Revelation 13:7 and it was given to
him to make war with the saints, not the
[music] church, and to overcome them.
And power was given him over all
kindreds [music] and tongues and
nations. And people wonder, how is that
even possible? How's that possible?
Because [music] we're salt. We're light.
And here's what the Bible says in
Matthew chapter 16. And I say also unto
you that you are Peter and upon this
rock I will build my church. Different
[music] word here. And the gates of hell
shall what?
Not prevail. So here in Matthew [music]
16, the gates of hell, the agenda of the
antichrist will not prevail. But when we
get in revelation chapter 13, it says
that he will overcome them. That he will
prevail. What are we [music] dealing
with here? The church as a special
entity is the spirit embodied
representation of Jesus Christ in
[music] the earth. We house his spirit
within us and within our unity and our
agreement. When we are gone, it will go
back to an old testament-like system
where we have saints. Saints are
referenced [music] in the book of Daniel
as an example. There are many different
references to saints and it's not always
a reference to [music] the church. So
when we get into Revelation 13, we see
these are saints. These are not the
church. And that's how the antichrist is
able to get power and authority over
them because the church is a special
entity. It is salt and light in [music]
the earth. What I'm trying to get across
to you is that we are the restraining
order in the earth. God has put us here
as a restraining force. And when it
comes time for his judgment to be poured
out, the time for gospel grace preaching
is over. And we're going to be taken out
of here. And so will the image of Jesus
Christ in the church be taken out of
here. The restraining force of the Holy
Spiritfilled church will be removed. We
are the restraining order. Have a whole
teaching on this on YouTube. You can
look it up on our YouTube channel. Go to
Revival Nation on YouTube and you'll
find it there. But be encouraged.
Greater is he that is in you than he
that's in the world. The Bible warns
about [music] deception in the last
days. But what if one of the great
deceptions is what you believe or don't
believe about the rapture of the church?
I dive into that and much more in my
latest book, They Lied to You About the
Rapture. Get your copy today.